How successful people think

Introduction
Good thinkers are always in demand.
A person who knows how may always have a job, but the person whon knows why will always be his boss.
Good thinkers solove problems, they never lack ideas that can build an organization, and they always have hope for a better future.
Good thinkers rarely find themselves at the mercy of ruthless people who would take advantage of them or try to deceive them, people like Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler, who once boasted, "What luck for rulers that men do not think"
Those who develop the process of good thinking can rule themselves-even while under an oppressive ruler or in other difficult circumstances.
In short, good thinkers are successful.
I've studied successful people for forty years, and though the diversity you find among them is astounding, I've found that they are all alike in one way: how they think!
That is the one thing that sparates successufl people from unsuccessful ones.
And here'sthe good news.
How successful people think can be learned.
If you change your thinking, you can change your life!

WHY YOU SHOULD CHANGE YOUR THINKING
It's hard to overstate the value of changing your thinking.
Good thinking can do many things for you: generate revenue, solve problems, and create opportunites.
It can take you to a whole new level-personally and professionally.
It really can change your life.
Consider some things you need to know about changing your thinking:

1. Changed Thinking Is Not Automatic
Sadly, a change in thinking doesn't happen on its own.
Good ideas rarely go out and find someone.
If you want to find a good idea, you mush search for it.
If you want to become a better thinker, you need to work at it-and once you begin to become a better tthinker, the good ideas keep coming.
In fact, the amount of good thinking you can do at any time depends primarily on the amount of good thinking you are already doing.

2. Changed Thinking Is Difficult
When you hear someone say, "Now this is just off the top of my head," expect dandruff.
The only people who believe thinking is easy are those Einstein, one of the best thinkers who ever lived, asserted, Thinking is
hard work; that’s why so few do it.” Because thinking is so difficult, you
want to use anything you can to help you improve the process.

3. Changed Thinking Is Worth the Investment
Author Napoleon Hill observed, “More gold has been mined from the
thoughts of man than has ever been taken from the earth.”
When you take
the time to learn how to change your thinking and become a better thinker,
you are investing in yourself. 
Gold mines tap out. Stock markets crash. Real
estate investments can go sour.
 But a human mind with the ability to think
well is like a diamond mine that never runs out. It’s priceless.


HOW TO BECOME A BETTER THINKER
Do you want to master the process of good thinking? Do you want to be
a better thinker tomorrow than you are today? Then you need to engage in
an ongoing process that improves your thinking. I recommend you do the
following:

1. Expose Yourself to Good Input
Good thinkers always prime the pump of ideas. They always look for
things to get the thinking process started, because what you put in always
impacts what comes out.
Read books, review trade magazines, listen to tapes, and spend time
with good thinkers. And when something intrigues you—whether it’s
someone else’s idea or the seed of an idea that you’ve come up with
yourself—keep it in front of you. Put it in writing and keep it somewhere in
your favorite thinking place to stimulate your thinking.

2. Expose Yourself to Good Thinkers
Spend time with the right people. As I worked on this section and
bounced my ideas off of some key people (so that my thoughts would be
stretched), I realized something about myself. All of the people in my life
whom I consider to be close friends or colleagues are thinkers. Now, I love
all people. I try to be kind to everyone I meet, and I desire to add value to as
many people as I can through conferences, books, audio lessons, etc. But
the people I seek out and choose to spend time with all challenge me with
their thinking and their actions. They are constantly trying to grow and
learn. That’s true of my wife, Margaret, my close friends, and the
executives who run my companies. Every one of them is a good thinker!
The writer of Proverbs observed that sharp people sharpen one another,
just as iron sharpens iron. If you want to be a sharp thinker, be around sharp
people.

3. Choose to Think Good Thoughts
To become a good thinker, you must become intentional about the
thinking process. Regularly put yourself in the right place to think, shape,
stretch, and land your thoughts. Make it a priority. Remember, thinking is a
discipline.
Recently I had breakfast with Dan Cathy, the president of Chick-fil-A, a
fast food chain headquartered in the Atlanta area. I told him that I was
working on this book and I asked him if he made thinking time a high
priority. Not only did he say yes, but he told me about what he calls his
“thinking schedule.” It helps him to fight the hectic pace of life that
discourages intentional thinking. Dan says he sets aside time just to think
for half a day every two weeks, for one whole day every month, and for two
or three full days every year. Dan explains, “This helps me ‘keep the main
thing, the main thing,’ since I am so easily distracted.”
You may want to do something similar, or you can develop a schedule
and method of your own. No matter what you choose to do, go to your
thinking place, take paper and pen, and make sure you capture your ideas in
writing.

4. Act on Your Good Thoughts
Ideas have a short shelf life. You must act on them before the expiration
date. World War I flying ace Eddie Rickenbacker said it all when he
remarked, “I can give you a six-word formula for success: Think things
through—then follow through.”

5. Allow Your Emotions to Create Another Good Thought
To start the thinking process, you cannot rely on your feelings. In
Failing Forward, I wrote that you can act your way into feeling long before
you can feel your way into action. If you wait until you feel like doing
something, you will likely never accomplish it. The same is true for
thinking. You cannot wait until you feel like thinking to do it. However, I’ve
found that once you engage in the process of good thinking, you can use
your emotions to feed the process and create mental momentum.
Try it for yourself. After you go through the disciplined process of
thinking and enjoy some success, allow yourself to savor the moment and
try riding the mental energy of that success. If you’re like me, it’s likely to
spur additional thoughts and productive ideas.

6. Repeat the Process
One good thought does not make a good life. The people who have one
good thought and try to ride it for an entire career often end up unhappy or
destitute. They are the one-hit wonders, the one-book authors, the onemessage speakers, the one-time inventors who spend their life struggling to
protect or promote their single idea. Success comes to those who have an
entire mountain of gold that they continually mine, not those who find one
nugget and try to live on it for fifty years. To become someone who can
mine a lot of gold, you need to keep repeating the process of good thinking.


PUTTING YOURSELF IN THE RIGHTPLACE TO THINK
Becoming a good thinker isn’t overly complicated. It’s a discipline. If
you do the six things I have outlined, you will set yourself up for a lifestyle
of better thinking. But what do you do to come up with specific ideas on a
day-to-day basis?
I want to teach you the process that I’ve used to discover and develop
good thoughts. It’s certainly not the only one that works, but it has worked
well for me.